---
layout: post
title: Machine Learning Algorithms
date: 2021-01-20
description: A Research on Performance Discrepancy for Varying Fine-tuning Layers and Pooling Strategies of BERT.
---

Codes and reports can be seen [here](https://github.com/huacailong/Machine-Learning). These are some machine learning algorithms, which are coded from scratch that can be useful to help understand the mechanism and mathematics behind them. 

### LDA1dThres.py: Fisher’s linear discriminant analysis (LDA) with threshold
The input argument is the number of folds in cross-validation, which should be integer larger than 1. And the default value for the input argument is 10.

### LDA2dGaussGM.py: LDA with bi-variate Gaussian generative modeling
We use two methods: shared covariance matrix and covariance matrix. In this code, it uses the shared covariance matrix method. If you want to see what's going on with the other method, in the code you can comment the line with "covariance_sum" out , and comment the following line in. 

Like LDA1dThres, the input is the same and default value is 10.

### logisticRegression.py: Logistic regression (LR)
The function here takes three input arguments, one is num_splits(integer) with default value 10, and the other is train_percent(list of integer), with default value [10,25,50,75,100]. Besides, in order to choose which dataset we are going to use, I add one another input argument data_choose with default value to be 1, If data_choose = 1, then we choose Boston50, if data_choose = 2, then we choose Boston75, if data_choose =3, then we choose Digits. And values except mentioned the mentioned above three are invalid. 

### naiveBayesGaussian.py: Naive-Bayes with marginal Gaussian distributions (GNB)
The input argument have the same format and meaning as we discussed in logisticRegression.py. 

### SVM_dual.py: A linear SVM in dual form
The function SVM_dual(dataset = "/Desktop/CSCI5525/HW/HW2/hw2_data_2020.csv"), the input argument is the route of where the data is located on my computer, if you want to test the function on your side, remember to change the route of the dataset and then run the function. 

### kernel_SVM.py: Kernel SVM
kernel_SVM(dataset = "/Desktop/CSCI5525/HW/HW2/hw2_data_2020.csv"), need to change the input argument.

### multi_SVM.py: A multi-class SVM using the one vs all strategy.
The function takes the form: multi_SVM(dataset = "/Desktop/CSCI5525/HW/HW2/mfeat"), which has similar explanation with before. Besides, only need the name "mfeat" here then I will combine all 6 dataset in the code. Note that if you run multi_SVM, then the function will process the part with linear kernel and print out the desired stuffs, then it will continue to run the second part with RBF kernel and then print out stuffs. 

### neural_net.py: A multi-layer fully connected neural network:
Just call the function neural_net() to get the result. The cumulative training loss and accuracy is been placed in the list for all epochs. 

### cnn.py: A convolutional neural network 
Just call the function cnn() to get results. 

### adaboost.py: Implement the Adaboost algorithm with 100 weak learners and apply it to the cancer dataset
The function adaboost(dataset = "/Users/huacailong/Desktop/CSCI5525/HW/HW4/breast-cancer-wisconsin.data"), the input argument is the route of where the data is located on my computer, if you want to test the function on your side, remember to change the route of the dataset and then run the function. 

### rf.py: Implement the Random Forest algorithm with 100 decision stumps. 
The function here is similar with problem 1 and takes the form: rf(dataset = "/Users/huacailong/Desktop/CSCI5525/HW/HW4/breast-cancer-wisconsin.data"), need to change the input argument as the same way in adaboost.py

### kmeans.py: mplement the k-means algorithm and apply it to the image “umn csci.png”
The function takes the form: kmeans(image = "/Users/huacailong/Desktop/CSCI5525/HW/HW4/umn_csci.png"), need to change the input argument as the same way in adaboost.py.
