---
layout: post
title: Computer Vision Related Problem
date: 2022-01-15
description: Codes from scratch that aim to solve computer vision problems.
---

Wrote codes from scratch to deal with the computer vision related problems, the code can be found [here](https://github.com/huacailong/Computer-Vision). 

- **HOG**: Please see HOG.py and HOG.pdf for details. The used figures are in the folder HOG Figures
  - Implement a variant of HOG (Histogram of Oriented Gradi- ents) in Python proposed by Dalal and Trigg [1] (2015 Longuet-Higgins Prize Winner).
  - Using the HOG descriptor, design a face detection algorithm.
- **Registration**: Please see Registration.py and Registration.pdf for details. The used figures are in the folder Registration Figures
  - SIFT visualization, extraction and feature matching
  - Compute an affine transform using SIFT matches filtered by RANSAC. 
  - Affine transform to warp the target image to the template using the inverse mapping. 
  - Inverse Compositional Image Alignment to update the affine transform
  - Track over frames using the inverse compositional image alignment.
- **Scene Recognition**: Please see scene_recognition.py and scene_recognition.pdf for details. The used datasets are in the folder scene_classification_data
  - Compute a set of image representations (tiny image and bag-of-word visual vocabulary)
  - Predict the category of each testing image using the classifiers (k-nearest neighbor and SVM) built on the training data.
  - Build a set of visual recognition systems that classify the scene categories. 
- **Convolutional Neural Network**: Please see cnn.py, main_functions.py and Convolutional Neural Network.pdf for details. The used datasets are in the folder Convolutional Neural Network
  -  Implement neural network to recognize hand-written digits in the MNIST data.
  -  Implement a single-layer linear perceptron with stochastic gradient descent method.
  -  Implement a single-layer perceptron with soft-max cross-entropy using stochas- tic gradient descent method.
  -  Implement a multi-layer perceptron with a single hidden layer using a stochastic gradient descent method. 
  -  Implement a convolutional neural network (CNN) using a stochastic gradient descent method.
- **Stereo_Reconstruction**: Please see Stereo_Reconstruction.py and Stereo_Reconstruction.pdf for details. The used figures are in the folder Stereo_Reconstruction_Figures
  - Match points between two images using SIFT features.
  - Compute a fundamental matrix to draw epipolar lines.
  - Given camera pose and correspondences, triangulate to reconstruct 3D points.
  - Find the best camera pose by verifying through 3D point triangulation.
  - Implement dense stereo matching be- tween two views based on dense SIFT.

