---
layout: post
title: Wind Farm
date: 2017-10-18 
description: Synthetic Inertia Provision by Coordinating Wind Turbines in a Wind Farm.
---

Codes and thesis can be seen [here](https://github.com/huacailong/HUMBI)

# HUMBI: Pose-Guided Human Rendering Challenge
Pose-guided person image generation, which is to synthesize a realistic image of the person with the target pose based on a source image showing the person with a given pose, has attracted much attention recently.

For more details, please see "HUMBI_Pose-Guided Human Rendering Challenge.pdf". 
## Baseline: XingGAN (https://github.com/Ha0Tang/XingGAN) 
And the generator aims to synthesize realistic person image, which is transferred from the person in source image with source pose to target pose. The Xing generator has three major components: 
- (1) Shape-guided Appearance-based generation (SA) branch to model the person shape representation based on an input of appearance representation; 
- (2) Appearance-guided Shape-based generation (AS) branch to model the person appearance representation based on an input of shape representation; 
- (3) Co-Attention Fusion (CAF) module for fusing the two branches to generate the syn- thesized image using the both appearance and shape codes. 

The SA branch and AS branch contains identical cascaded SA blocks and AS blocks correspondingly and the appearance code and shape code are updated in a cross-conditioning strategy under the guidance of each other.

## Dataset: HUMBI dataset 
HUMBI dataset is available at http://humbi-data.net/ and there is a benchmark challenge open for participation. This project aims to compete for this chal- lenge using proposed method based on XingGAN.

## Method: XingGAN and Pose-Transfer
Therefore, our proposed solution is to come up with a hybrid model by combining the pose transfer framework with the baseline aiming to get a performance improvement. To figure out what leads to higher pose consistence, we first added two neural networks in each SA and AS block, which can be seen as the red dashed lines in following figure and then added image code update part in PATB previous to SA and AS block, which can be seen as the blue dashed lines in following figure.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/Propose_solution.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>


## Results: quantitative and qualitative results. 

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/Qualitative_result.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>


In total, XingGAN with CNN has the best performance over all and XingGAN with image code update and XingGAN with 1 block have similar performance, which are slightly worse than XingGAN with CNN.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/Quantitative_result.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>


In total, XingGAN with CNN yields the best similarity between the targe images and synthesized images and XingGAN with 9 blocks has the best inception score.

### Discussion:
- From both quantitative and qualitative results, we were surprised that the both IS and SSIM are only around 0.3 and the synthesized images are not clear. 
- We found that XingGAN can achieve SSIM more than 0.7 for Deep- Fashion dataset, where the background is white only, but XingGAN achieves SSIM score around 0.3 for the market-1501 dataset, where the background is composed with details, for examples, trees, bikes and other persons. 
- The reason why XingGAN achieves a lower score for Market-1501 is the score is impaired by the unclear background, where the XingGAN method is not good at. 
- And in our HUMBI dataset, we have both person and the background, even though we have a good pose transfer for the person, but we are not very good at transferring the background so that our SSIM is also low, which is around 0.4. In conclusion, XingGAN is good at pose transfer but not good at backgrounds.


## How to use:
- Download the dataset from http://humbi-data.net/ and unzip it into the folder SelectionGAN/person_transfer/datasets/humbi_data
- Generate pose map files (.npy files) using python files in SelectionGAN/person_transfer/datasets
- Use "XingGAN_train_modified_1", "XingGAN_train_modified_2","XingGAN_train_original_1" and "XingGAN_train_original_2" to train the XingGAN under different settings.  Or you can download the pretrained model at https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1Ebu_06nc3B_TKQYYLepK-QbM1Cm0W_OU?usp=sharing. 
- Then use those test python files to test your trained XingGAN on the HUMBI dataset, the result is available in the folder results/ 
- Then use tool/getMetrics_humbi_9blocks.py to get the scores. 


