---
layout: post
title: Langevin-based Sampling Algorithms with Energy-Based Models
date: 2022-12-20 
description: Langevin-based Sampling Algorithms with Energy-Based Models.
---

Codes and thesis can be seen [here](https://github.com/huacailong/Energy_Based_Models). 

## Energy based Models(EBMs)
Energy-based model (EBM) is an approach designed to estimate the probability density. Energy-based models are prevalent in recent studies and are useful in image generation problems. However, the intractable partition function makes the training procedure of EBMs challenging and the current solution is to sampling methods to approximate the expectation in the maximum likelihood loss function.


## Langevin-Based Sampling Methods
Different sampling methods are used to draw samples from the target distribution. 
- (1) Stochastic Gradient Langevin Approach (SGLA) is a sampling technique that fuse the characteristics from stochastic gradient descent (SGD) and Langevin dynamics, which is a mathematical extension of molecular dynamics models. 
- (2) Projected stochastic gradient Langenvin algorithm (PSGLA) takes constraints into consideration. 
- (3) Annealed Langevin Algorithm (ALA) do SGLA in annealed way, where the initialization for current simulation is the final point from previous simulation. 

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/EBM_pseudocode.PNG" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>

## Results: 2-D localization problem
Then different Langevin-based sampling methods are studied and implemented on a simple 2-D localization problem and results show that the PSGLA is better than the SGLA with engaging constraints.
<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/EBM_Sampling_Result.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>

Annealed Langevin algorithm performs better than PSGLA when the distribution is unbalanced due to the intrinsic initialization advantage in Annealed Langevin algorithm. 

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/EBM_Sampling_Result_unb.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>
## Results: EBMs with MNIST dataset
Moreover, we trained EBM with three different sampling methods on MNIST dataset. We can conclude 1) constraints are crucial in the sampling methods since they will limit the generated image in the correct domain; 2) a good initialization is crucial to the sampling methods, where Annealed Langevin algorithm has its own method to do initialization while PSGLA needs the additional initialization buffer. Besides the good initialization method in Annealed Langevin algorithm, it also performs better in the unbalanced distribution and this advantage is not fully exploited using the MNIST dataset. The qualatitive and quantative results can be seen in the following. 

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/EBM_Qualatitive Result.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/EBM_Quatative_sampling_Result.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>

